TÍTULO:
    The Hacker News — Cybersecurity Articles Posted on 01 May, 2025 — Thursday

    CATEGORIA:
    desconhecido

    MÊS:
    JUN

    ANO:
    2025

    CORPO DA NOTÍCIA:
    TÍTULO:
The Hacker News — Cybersecurity Articles Posted on 01 May, 2025 — Thursday

CORPO DA NOTÍCIA:
LATEST STORIES
01 May, 2025 — Thursday
SonicWall has revealed that two now-patched security flaws impacting its SMA100 Secure Mobile Access (SMA) appliances have been exploited in the wild.
The vulnerabilities in question are listed below -

CVE-2023-44221 (CVSS score...
Cybersecurity researchers have shed light on a new campaign targeting WordPress sites that disguises the malware as a security plugin.
The plugin, which goes by the name "WP-antymalwary-bot.php," comes with a variety of features ...
Artificial intelligence (AI) company Anthropic has revealed that unknown threat actors leveraged its Claude chatbot for an "influence-as-a-service" operation to engage with authentic accounts across Facebook and X.
The sophistica...
Security Operations Center (SOC) teams are facing a fundamentally new challenge — traditional cybersecurity tools are failing to detect advanced adversaries who have become experts at evading endpoint-based defenses and sig...
Enterprise data backup platform Commvault has revealed that an unknown nation-state threat actor breached its Microsoft Azure environment by exploiting CVE-2025-3928 but emphasized there is no evidence of unauthorized data access...
For over a decade, application security teams have faced a brutal irony: the more advanced the detection tools became, the less useful their results proved to be. As alerts from static analysis tools, scanners, and CVE databases ...
Russian companies have been targeted as part of a large-scale phishing campaign that's designed to deliver a known malware called DarkWatchman.
Targets of the attacks include entities in the media, tourism, finance and insurance,...
Don't Miss!!!
Join our mailing list to receive free eBooks, latest news, critical updates, and offers.
Let's get social! Follow us.

CATEGORIA(S): desconhecido
CLASSIFICAÇÃO: desconhecido
MÊS: desconhecido
ANO: desconhecido
    